Welcome back to the computer
forensics path, Course 7,
we're going to talk about the triage and
preservation of digital evidence.
Preservation of digital evidence.
How do we preserve
the evidence to make little or
no changes to the original evidence?
We're going to talk about live
versus dead box evidence collection.
Whether you're going to be doing a large
live imaging of a logical product or
we're going to do the traditional,
remove the hard drive
connected to a write blocker and
create a forensic image.
We're going to define volatile data and
talk about how we capture volatile data,
and we're also going to talk
about forensic boot options.
This is when we would do to some
type of Lennox Destro CD or
maybe a commercial type of USB or
CD drive and
boot into a forensically
sound environment where
we're not making changes
to the original evidence.
In course seven module 1, we're going to
talk about the preservation of digital
evidence, how we preserve the evidence and
what steps we're going to take.
Okay, when we talk about
preservation of evidence,
what we're talking about is we don't
want to make any changes to the original
evidence and of course we don't
want to destroy the original evidence.
We need to maintain the integrity of
the original evidence from the time we
collected to the time it goes
through court proceedings.
And we do that by working
off of duplicates making
a forensically sound digital copy,
using write
blockers booting into some
type of forensic media.
If we have to do live imaging, there are
situations where we're going to have to
live imaging, it's going to be
expected of us to do live imaging.
And yes, we are going to be making
changes to the original evidence.
What you want to do there is document
what you did and why you did it.
Document any changes you make
to the original evidence.
And the key to this is knowing
your equipment, your software,
your forensic software and your
physical equipment and how it works and
explain why you made changes,
why it was necessary to do what you did?
And there's going to be cases where
it's absolutely necessary and
if you don't, you'd be negligent.
If a computer is off,
if you're doing a search,
can you find a computer that's off?
Leave it off, don't just turn it on.
You're either going to booted in to
some type of forensic boot media.
Or if you have a device that off,
you're going to remove the hard drive,
if possible, connected to a write
blocker and create a forensic image.
If the devices on here's where
things get a little different,
first of all photograph all
the open windows on the computer.
Note any running applications of
processes, no any destructive processes.
Look for destructive processes,
things like wiping DR0.
Look for signs of encryption,
you're going to see padlocks and
things that looks like locks.
And we're going to collect RAM and
we're going to talk about how we do
all this throughout this course.
This slide shows an example
of just wiping software.
We can see the top one
it's erasing a file and
then the graphic just below that,
we can see that it's erasing disc one.
So if we see something
that looks like this,
we know destructive processes running and
we're going to have to take action.
If you see a destructive process running,
immediately pull the plug from
the back of the computer.
Don't pull the plug from the wall because
it could have some type of backup battery,
pull the plug from
the back of the computer.
To look for indication of
running destructive processes,
look down the bottom at the task bar.
Or if the task tray you
can see in the graphic,
you can see the tray,
we see the kill disk.
That is the sign for kill disk,
that's their logo is running,
and we can see on the task bar,
kill disk is running.
If you see kill this running,
you want to pull the plug from
the back of the computer.
Once we've determined that a destructive
processes running, we've checked the task
bar, we checked the tray, we see that
there is a destructive process running.
We're going to pull the plug
from the back of the computer.
If you are working with a laptop,
you must also remove the battery.
If you cannot remove the battery,
if it's a Surface Pro or
another laptop where you
cannot remove the battery,
hard shut the computer as fast as you can,
hold down the power button.
Also, another step we're going to take to
preserve the evidence is we're going to
isolate it from radio RF, from wireless
signal and from Bluetooth signal.
So we're going to use some type of
RF shielding like a Faraday bag.
Faraday is a brand name, there are other
companies that make RF shielding bags and
this is to prevent remote wiping of
course and alteration of the evidence.
If we have a device that is powered
on we wanted to stay powered on.
So we need a portable battery or
another portable power supply.
Because power loss can cause data loss,
and
it can also trigger the computer locking,
if it loses power or
can trigger encryption kicking in.
If those encrypted drives were open,
they're not going to be anymore.
So there may be times when you
need to prevent power loss, so
make sure you have a portable battery or
another portable supply with
you in your evidence kit.
Write protection.
Always use write protection when
working with the original evidence.
And I'm talking about preview and
live imaging.
Use write protection as much as possible,
and
we're doing this to prevent
changes to the original evidence.
But if you can't use write protection
because there's going to be sometimes and
you can't,
it's just not physically possible,
document the changes that you
are making to the original evidence.
And here is where knowing your software,
knowing your tools comes into play.
So you might have to do some testing and
validating in your lab to figure out what
changes your particular
type of software is making.
I can tell you any time you plug in USB
device into a computer, you're making
changes to the registry and we'll talk
more about that, throughout this course.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about live box
versus dead box evidence collection.